In the previous video we learned that Opie is what we call a paradigm a way to think about our code
and structure our code.
And I'm going to link to this excellent article from Wikipedia about the history of programming languages.
You see we started with basic programming languages we have things like assembly language that was really
low level really close to machine code.
We had things like COBOL and then we slowly as we started writing more and more code in the 60s and
70s we started to establish some of these fundamental paradigms.
And one of the big paradigms that came to be especially with these small talk programming language was
this idea of object oriented programming or an object oriented language.
You see up until that point we wrote what we call procedural code.
What that means is that if we look at a python file for example a procedural code was just like a procedure
we simply had lines of one through let's say a hundred and we just went from the top of the line to
the bottom of the line.
We had conditionals maybe loops but everything was Do this do that.
It was us telling the machine Hey just do exactly this one I'm about to tell you with the introduction
of object oriented paradigms this changed a bit.
We started saying hey let's model something in our code that represents a real world object.
For example if I'm about to code a car I would create a car object that has data on what color it is
what type of engine it has how many seats it has but also actions like methods that we can take on it
such as the car can go forward it can go backward it can open the door and instead of having these line
by line procedural code we can think in terms of models real world blueprints because as humans we organize
things think of a room think of a factory by organizing things and having different groups in a specific
location working together that's a better way to think as well as to run things.
So how would this look in python.
Well Python is an object oriented language or can be which means that it's able to support or be ideas.
This idea of objects and modeling and we've seen this when we use the type we see that everything is
an object because we use this class keyword.
But what is this class keyword in Python.
I can create my own data type my own class by simply saying class and then afterwards I can name it
whatever I want.
Let's say class big
now.
Right away you see here that the naming convention is different than what we've seen before.
We're going to make sure that it's capitalized which is the standard we want to let programmers know
that this is going to be a class and we're not using the snake case we're using what we call camel case
which is every new word is a capital letter and then here we use the colon and then in here we write
our code.
Now I'm not going to write the code right now I'm just going to pass but right there I've just created
a new class so that if I do let's say for example type
big object and I click Run well I still get type.
Because right now what we've created is this class which is a blueprint but we haven't actually created
the object.
I know the wording can get confusing but bear with me.
I will explain this.
We can now create let's say object one equals two big object and then run this class so that if I do
type object here Object 1 and I click Run
I get class big object.
You can ignore the main here for now because we're going to talk about it later but you see here that
I've just created my own object.
Now let's think about what just happened here because it is a lot to understand.
You see an object oriented programming.
There's this idea of a class and an object.
Now a class is this.
It's the blueprint the blueprint of what we want to create.
What are the basic attributes that is properties that our class has.
What are some basic methods or actions that our class can take.
And then from this blueprint I'm able to create different objects over and over using this as the building
block.
So this blueprint is what we call a class which we define what the class keyword and this class can
be instantiated.
That is the action of creating different instances.
And what are these instances.
These are all objects.
Now the naming here is something that you're gonna have to get used to and all object oriented programming
languages have this language.
So you'll just have to understand what somebody says Hey I just instantiated a class.
It means Hey I just created a new instance a new object so looking at this diagram.
Let's go back to the code that we just wrote.
We've created here a class or a blueprint and then here this double bracket is US instantiating the
class and saying Hey class use whatever you have code in here and instantiated and create a new object.
So we're creating a new object by instantiating this class and this is exactly what we're doing with
something like a list right.
I can create multiple lists over and over and over and every time I create a list I have access to all
of these methods and sometimes even attributes that I can use and this way I save a lot of time instead
of coding it myself in in the same way I can create multiple objects here object to object three just
like that and now I have three different objects that I can use based on this blueprint.
Now the blueprint right now doesn't have anything because while I can add code here later and we're
gonna do that in the next video.
But the beauty is let's think about efficiency here.
You see the blueprint itself.
The class is going to be stored in memory so Python interpreter is going to say hey big object it's
going to be the blueprint for this.
So I'm going to store all that code in memory but every time I create an object I don't have to rewrite
the code or do anything like that.
I can simply say hey go in memory to where big AI objectives.
And just run that code so that again we're keeping our code dry.
We have one place that allows us to instantiate our code into objects.
Let's take a break and expand on this class in the next video.